## Getting Our Hands Dirty with Functions

### Top-Down Programming

Up until now we've only written one-off functions, aka ones that operate independently of one another. But a great use for functions is making them so they help you solve small pieces of a large problem. This idea begets a programming strategy known as **top-down**. The idea behind the top-down approach to programming is, start at the definition of the problem and distribute out tasks, defined at a high level, to functions. Then each of those functions will implement more functions. As you go to subsequently deeper layers of your program the functions perform increasingly specific tasks, until there is a specific piece of the programming puzzle that a function can perform, a base task if you will.

One difficulty regarding this approach is that it requires full vision about how a problem should be broken down before you get into the nitty-gritty implementation of any base tasks. This is a problem that is oft discussed during software design. Luckily, for most of the problems that we will want to solve on our own, unless we're working within a larger framework of a project (as would exist if you were part of a team, either independent or within a company), can be managed with an iterative approach to implementing top-down.

Basically, this involves writing some code to start solving the first part of the problem, then once that code starts becoming it's own independent piece, putting it into a function. At that point, start writing more code that will likely become it's own funciton. Et cetera. This mish-mash of an approach can be difficult to get used to, and is by no means perfect. But with practice it starts feeling second nature. To that end, we will being going through that process today, solving a problem that is too large to be implemented in a single function, to see how it is carried out. Along the way we will learn about a few more Python tools, be able to see how the solution to a problem can evolve over time, and see how functions in action are such a powerful tool (both in taking advantage of employing a DRY methodology and seeing the power of abstraction).

